---
title: '30 books in 2021 #3'
date: 2021-03-09
permalink: /posts/2021/03/blog-post-3/
tags:
  - Businee
---
Book Review: ZERO TO ONE by Peter Thiel
======
*If you want to build a better future, you must believe in secrets. The great secret of our time is that there are still uncharted frontiers to explore and new inventions to create. In Zero to One, legendary entrepreneur and investor Peter Thiel shows how we can find singular ways to create those new things.*

Three counterintuitive ways to think about starting a business and building a better future.

#1 Bet on a Contrarian Truth
------
try to answer the following question:
“What important truth do very few people agree with you on?”
A truth about how people will act in the future in ways they’re either unwilling to admit right now or are just unaware of.

All failed companies are the same: they failed to escape competition.
When you bet your business on a contrarian truth, you’ll dramatically increase your odds of avoiding competition mainly because most people will think you’re crazy and ignore you long enough for you to build a significant lead in a particular market that will make it hard for anyone to catch it.

Make sure you bet on a contrarian truth whose time has come.

**Before starting a business, ask yourself “is my success dependent on outworking the competition or courageous enough to bet on a contrarian truth whose time has come?”**

#2 Start by Dominating a Small Market
------
When Jeff Bezos started amazon, he had the idea of creating an everything store but he didn’t start by building an everything store, instead, he focused on dominating a small niche market, that niche market was online book sales.

When starting your business, don’t try to get one percent of a billion-dollar market, instead, try to get eighty percent of a million-dollar market.  

**Whoever is first to dominate the most important segment of a market with viral potential will be the last mover in the whole market.**

#3 Try to be a Monopoly 
-------
Evil monopoly: bully competitors; take advantage of their customer’s lack of choice

Good Monopolies: use excess profits to give back to society; stay on business

Four Monopoly Methods: Brand association; Technology; Network effects; Scale

**Be Unique; Be different; Be a monopoly.**

