---
title: '30 books in 2021 #4'
date: 2021-04-01
permalink: /posts/2021/04/blog-post-4/
tags:
  - Business
---
Book Review: Start with Why by Simon Sinek
======
*"People don't buy what you do, they buy why you do it."-Simon Sinek*

>  “Instead of asking, “WHAT should we do to compete?” the questions must be asked, “WHY did we start doing WHAT we’re doing in the first place, and WHAT can we do to bring our cause to life considering all the technologies and market opportunities available today?”


The Golden Circle
------
In this book, Sinek introduces a new concept called "The Golden Circle". It is consisted of threee parts: why, how and what.

If you meet Sinek in a party and ask him what he does.
He could say:

"I write books on leadership." [What]

or he could say:

"Everything I do is devoted to one idea: To inspire people to do what inspires them, so that together we can change the world for the better."[Why]

+"I happen to write leadership books..."[What]

When Sinek starts with "Why", "What" he does feels more important. If you resonate with his why, you may ask more about his books or maybe buy his books. That's the power of starting with "Why".

Start with Why
-------
A company must articulate why they do what they do. You need ask yourself these quesions frequently:

Why do you get out bed in the morning?

Why should anyone care?

Great companies tell you what they stand for rather than what they are selling. Apple stands for simplicity, beautiful design, and perfection. Apple wants you to resonate with what they believe and what they stand for before telling you that their new ipad is $300 more expensive that a similar tablet from another brand, because they know if you resonate with what Apple stands for, you won't care thet Apple costs more than other products.

The Biological Basis of the Golden Circle
-----

Humans have a natural desire to belong. They are always trying to find other people or products what share the same "Why".

**The What and the Neocortex**:"What" is related to our neocortex. It is a brain area specialized for rational and analytical thought and language. Our neocortex does not drive behavior. Therefore, it merely allows us to consider large amounts of data. 

**The How, Why and the Limbic Brain:** The How and Why of The Golden Circle are both associated with the limbic brain. The limbic brain is specialized for feelings like trust and loyalty. Subsequently, this area of the brain is responsible for all human behavior and decision-making. 

**Although customers state they want products with specific features, the Why urge (neocortex) is more powerful than the What urge (limbic brain).**


