---
title: '30 books in 2021 #5'
date: 2021-04-11
permalink: /posts/2021/04/blog-post-5/
tags:
  - Psychology
---
Book Review: David and Goliath by Malcolm Gladwell
======
*When confronting powerful opponents, instead of wondering if they have more power than you, the question you should be asking yourself is if there is a way that you can play by your own rules.*

> “Three thousand years ago on a battlefield in ancient Palestine, a shepherd boy felled a mighty warrior with nothing more than a stone and a sling, and ever since then the names of David and Goliath have stood for battles between underdogs and giants. ”

In this book, Gladwell talks about David and Goliath, not David vs. Goliath. He explains how we all have our strengths and weaknesses and how we can use them to our advantage to get our way through this world. 

The Advantages of Disadvantages & The Disadvantages of Advantages
------
Gladwell begins with some examples of how some underdogs succeed.

Ranadivé coached a basketball team that had no experience and was not particularly talented, but they became champions by playing an unorthodox style of defense. This strategy caught other teams off guard. They won the games because they are using their strengths instead of trying to compensate for their weaknesses. Once they stopped playing this new way, they lost.

This suggests that people shouldn’t assume that something is an advantage or a disadvantage because it may be different in each situation.

**Our cliché about innovation is that someone should has the ability to “think outside the box,” but Gladwell argues that it’s not just the ability to think outside the box that matters — one has to possess a personality capable of persevering through rejection, repudiation, and setbacks in order to make the world work differently. Such personalities are often hardened by setbacks encountered at a young age.**

Play your Game
------
When confronting powerful opponents, instead of wondering if they have more power than you, the question you should be asking yourself is if there is a way that you can play by your own rules.

**By putting out advantage, we hide our disadvantage.**
