---
title: '30 books in 2021 #6'
date: 2021-05-24
permalink: /posts/2021/05/blog-post-6/
tags:
  - Entrepreneurship
---
Book Review: The Lean Startup by Eric Ries
======
*“The definition of a startup: a human institution designed to create new products and services under conditions of extreme uncertainty. " - Eric Ries*

In this book, Ries was trying to answer the question “How can we build a sustainable organization around a new set of products or services?”.  Ries firmly believed that “Startup success can be engineered by following the right process, which means it can be learned, which means it can be taught”.

The 5 Principles of Lean Startup are as follows:
1. Entrepreneurs are everywhere.
2. Entrepreneurship is management.
3. Validated Learning.
4. Build-measure-learn.
5. Innovation accounting.

Minimal Viable Product (MVP)
------
Types of Minimal Viable Product (MVP)
1. The Video MVP.
2. The Concierge MVP.
3. The Wizard of Oz MVP.


It's very common to launch your MVP too late.

MVP is simply the fastest way to get through the Build-Measure-Learn feedback loop with the minimum amount of effort. When you conduct a survey and ask potential customers if they want to buy your product, maybe most of them might tell you they'll buy your product when it's ready, but that story often changes when you actually ask them to pay for it. That's the real power of the MVP.  

**The Video MVP:** Instead of building a functioning prototype, you simply create a video showing how your product will work and you then show that video to the potential customers to see if it meets their needs and if they want the product when you build it and also it's a good idea here to ask them to pay for it up front.

**The Concierge MVP:** This is based on the idea that when you're just starting out and don't need to handle thousands of customers. You just need to make one customer happy. Servicing the customer is actually done manually. That's obviously not scalable. But the point here is to prove the merit of your service before you invest the money and time to build it. 

**The Wizard of Oz MVP:** The essence of this type of MVP lies in creating an illusion of an actual intended product. An example of a real company that started using a Wizard of Oz MVP is Zappos. Its founder Nick Swinmurn decided to test the assumption that people would be willing to buy shoes online without trying them on. To do this, he simply took photos of shoes and built a simple site selling them. When a customer purchased some shoes, he went back to the store, bought them at retail price, and mailed them to the customer by himself.


It can be really scary launching your MVP, you might be scared that someone is going to steal your idea, you might be scared that it is embarrassingly simple and doesn’t showcase your true vision for the future. It might dent your pride to launch something that isn’t fully ready or has a few quality issues. These feelings often lead to founders launching their MVP much later than they really need to.

Pivot or Persevere?
-----

The Pivot: A pivot means to change direction but stay grounded in what you’ve learned. Changing your strategy is known as a pivot but that doesn’t mean your vision changes.  

Instagram: This startup found that their social check-in app was actually mostly used for photo sharing, so they decided to focus on that and do that one thing well. 

Pinterest: This startup found that nobody was using their mobile app for shopping, but they did discover that they were creating and sharing wish lists. 


**Putting aside your ego is essential. What you believe about your customer is going to be proved wrong. It’s better to learn as quickly as you can.**

