---
title: '30 books in 2021 #7'
date: 2021-05-31
permalink: /posts/2021/05/blog-post-7/
tags:
  - Cognitive Science
---
Book Review: Don't Think of An Elephant by George Lakoff
======
*“When you are arguing against the other side, do not use their language. Their language reflects their frame. Use it and you've gutted your argument before you begin.*


George Lakoff is a well-known cognitive scientist and linguist. He has been working on explaining how conservatives brainwash people into believing their ideology. In this book,
he illustrates his famous principle: Never, ever use the language of your opponents. Their language reflects their frame. Use it and you've gutted your argument before you begin.

Below are three takeaways.

We See The World Through Frames
------
Lakoff says that frames are “mental structures that shape the way we see the world”.

What surprises us is that most of our decisions are made unconsciously, because frames already exist in our mind and can be actived through catch-phrases, references and simple words.

Always Reframe The Argument
------
Always reframe and fit the facts to your frame. 

When you are trying to convince others, do not state the true facts and show that they contradict your opponent’s claims, the easier way is to reframe and fit the facts to your frame. 

Real-Life Examples
------
Don’t use the word you want to avoid people thinking. 

Lakoff gave an example of former president Richard Nixon famously saying “I’m not a crook”, then everyone in front of the TV immediately started thinking about him as a crook.

Use "feel free to contact me" instead of  “don’t hesitate to contact me”, because the word “hesitate” will make people hesitant.
